How to use the Open Data Hub's Tourism Data Browser?
====================================================

This how to explains the necessary steps to access and retrieve data
from the |odh|'s tourism domain.


Data Browsing and Exploring
---------------------------

In order to access the data in the tourism domain, launch a browser
and point it to http://tourism.opendatahub.bz.it/. On the right-hand
side of the page, you can see a box that shows the permissions to
access data that you have as a (non-logged in) user, while the
remainder of the page provides an overview of the various component of
the project and its architecture.

If you try to access the :strong:`ODH Data` item in the top menu, you
will see that it is empty. In order to access data, you need to click
on the :strong:`Login` button on the top right corner of the page.

.. _tourism-login-web:

.. figure:: /images/tourism-04.png

   Logging in to the CMS portal.

Write the username (email address) and password that was provided to
you and click on the :button:`Log in`. You will be redirected to the
home page as a logged in user and from here, you will see the box with
the permissions you have to access the various types of data.

If you now try to access the :strong:`ODH Data` item in the top menu,
you will be able to select some dataset. As an example,
:numref:`tourism-data-filter` shows what is available in the
:menuselection:`ODH Data --> Activities & Pois --> Winter` filter - in
this case a list of activities that can be done during the winter on
the snow.

The page allows to further filter the results, by using search strings
and/or the list of tags underneath, to move between pages of results,
and to change language of the interface (although at the moment the
page is not fully translated in all languages!)
	    
.. _tourism-data-filter:

.. figure:: /images/tourism-05.png

   Accessing the data through filters or menu item.

If you click on one of the images in the list will pop up an overlay
with more detailed information about that activity.

.. _tourism-data-detail:

.. figure:: /images/tourism-06.png

   Detailed view of a :abbr:`POI (Point Of Interest)`.


