.. _getting-involved:

Getting Involved
=================

.. _odh-actors:

.. figure:: /images/actors.png
   :scale: 90%
   :align: right

   Relations between the actors involved in the |odh|\.

There are different possibilities to participate in the Open Data Hub
Project, including -but not limited to- to report bugs in the API or
errors in the API output, to ask for more datasets to be added to our
repository, to make feature requests or suggestions for improvement,
and even to participate in the development or supply new data to be
shared.

:numref:`odh-actors` shows at a glance the various roles that
potential users can play within the |odh|\, according to their
interest, expertise, skills, and knowledge.

Depending on your interest on the Open Data Hub Project, we welcome
your participation to the project in one of the roles that we have
envisioned: :strong:`User (Data Consumer)`, :strong:`App developer`,
:strong:`Core Hacker`, and :strong:`Data Provider`. Below you can find
out a list of tasks that belong to each of these roles; we believe
that this list can help you understand which type of contribution you
can give to the |odh| project!

Besides the tasks that you find below, you can also help the Open Data
Hub project grow and improve by reporting bugs or asking for new
features, following the directions presented in  :ref:`the dedicated
section below <bug-reports>`.

.. _roles-tasks:
   
Roles and Tasks
---------------

This section gives an overview of which tasks you can play when
collaborating with the |odh| project. 

.. panels::

   .. toggle:: As a User I can...
   
      .. include:: /includes/user.rst    

   -----
   
   .. toggle:: As an App Developer I can...

      .. include:: /includes/appdevel.rst

   -----

   .. toggle:: As a Open Data Hub Core Hacker I can...

      .. include:: /includes/corehacker.rst


   -----
   

   .. toggle:: As a Data Provider I can....
      
      .. include:: /includes/dataproviders.rst
			 

.. _bug-reports:
   
Bug reporting and feature requests
----------------------------------
	   
.. include:: /includes/bugrepo.rst


Continuous Improvement
----------------------

Since its inception, the |odh| project has reached many important
goals and is steadily growing, with the help of all people, companies,
and institutions that :ref:`contribute at various level
<roles-tasks>`. For a project like |odh|, growing means that not only
its core components constantly improve, but also that external
entities contribute to the project, developing a community of users
that can interact, contribute, exchange opinions, and even play
multiple roles. The workflow of this whole process is depicted in
:numref:`community-workflow`.

.. _community-workflow:

.. figure:: /images/workflow.png
   :scale: 90%
   :align: center

   Continuous improvement and growing in |odh|\.

